Organizing Kick-off Week Summary (#62)
dweb-camp-2019/organizing: notes/2019-04-05-kick-off-week/README.md

## Organizer Planning @ The Internet Archive

After taking a day off to reflect on our site visit, the core organizers gathered at the Internet Archive on Wednesday to start 3 days of meetings, where we'd share our personal visions for DWeb Camp 2019, draft first principles, our inclusion & diversity plans, ticket sales & support policies, project proposal processes, meanwhile arranging consultation and partnership calls to get more diverse feedback on our plans.

![internet-archive](images/internet-archive.jpg?raw=true)

The first session began with Wendy leading a collaborative value alignment exercise, where we surfaced personal feelings about how we want DWeb Camp 2019 to be.

![feelings-positive](images/feelings-positive.jpg?raw=true)

And what we do NOT want DWeb Camp to be.

![feelings-negative](images/feelings-negative.jpg?raw=true)

> After grouping related feelings and sharing thoughts, we wrote potential candidates for first principles, grouped and voted for them, then co-drafted our long-form of our first principles.

Author: ```suggestion
After grouping related feelings and sharing thoughts, we wrote potential candidates for first principles, grouped and voted for them, then co-drafted our long-form of our _Five Pillars_.
```

Nonetheless, to paraphrase Emily Jacobi of Digital Democracy, _tools always reflect the values of the toolmakers, and we’ll build better tools when we create them alongside those who will be using them_.
We understand the importance of working with people who understand viscerally the real world constraints: small communities 1000 km away from the nearest internet connection point; unreliable power; no network operators in the region; connectivity that is exorbitantly priced; censored web content.

Given the limited scholarship budget and timeline, DWeb Camp creators agreed that our best strategy is to partner with specific organizations working with communities worldwide who could benefit from decentralized tech.
We will ask these groups to nominate the 10+ Global Fellows we can support, focusing on tech-savvy intermediaries who work on-the-ground.

Global Fellows can become the bridges between the decentralized protocol builders and the global users.
We also spoke a lot about building _meaningful engagement_ for the Global Fellows who attend, and how to move to a culture that values diverse skill sets and perspectives beyond the knowledge of technology.

> Building upon the process employed at the Decentralized Web Summit 2018, we went through a list of 300+ invitees compiled by various contributors last year, next our 2019 organizers added to that list, with the goal to invite individuals who can help foster the inclusive space that we want.

Author: ```suggestion
Building upon the process employed at the Decentralized Web Summit 2018, we went through a list of 300+ invitees compiled by various contributors last year; next our 2019 organizers added to that list, with the goal to invite individuals who can help foster the inclusive space that we want.
```

The first session began with Wendy leading a collaborative value alignment exercise, where we surfaced personal feelings about how we want DWeb Camp 2019 to be.

![feelings-positive](images/feelings-positive.jpg?raw=true)

And what we do NOT want DWeb Camp to be.

![feelings-negative](images/feelings-negative.jpg?raw=true)

> After grouping related feelings and sharing thoughts, we wrote potential candidates for first principles, grouped and voted for them, then co-drafted our long-form of our first principles.

Reviewer: Instead of "first principles" can we call them "Five Pillars"

Nonetheless, to paraphrase Emily Jacobi of Digital Democracy, _tools always reflect the values of the toolmakers, and we’ll build better tools when we create them alongside those who will be using them_.
We understand the importance of working with people who understand viscerally the real world constraints: small communities 1000 km away from the nearest internet connection point; unreliable power; no network operators in the region; connectivity that is exorbitantly priced; censored web content.

Given the limited scholarship budget and timeline, DWeb Camp creators agreed that our best strategy is to partner with specific organizations working with communities worldwide who could benefit from decentralized tech.
We will ask these groups to nominate the 10+ Global Fellows we can support, focusing on tech-savvy intermediaries who work on-the-ground.

Global Fellows can become the bridges between the decentralized protocol builders and the global users.
We also spoke a lot about building _meaningful engagement_ for the Global Fellows who attend, and how to move to a culture that values diverse skill sets and perspectives beyond the knowledge of technology.

> Building upon the process employed at the Decentralized Web Summit 2018, we went through a list of 300+ invitees compiled by various contributors last year, next our 2019 organizers added to that list, with the goal to invite individuals who can help foster the inclusive space that we want.

Reviewer: last year; next our 2019 orga  (Make comma a semicolon)

## Roadmap & Continuity

In 2016, DWeb Summit involved mostly builders of technologies. 
In 2018, participants represented multiple disciplines and efforts were made to broaden gender, ethnic and geographic diversity.

> In organizing the third event, our first Camp, we hope to more deeply explore who is represented and create more meaningful representations by curating for truly inclusive spaces.

Reviewer: instead of "by curating for truly inclusive spaces" how about "by thoughtful curation, supportive structures like support circles, and encouraging multi-disciplinary projects that span many groups."

Author: ```suggestion
In organizing the third event, our first Camp, we hope to more deeply explore who is represented and create more meaningful representations by thoughtful curation, supportive structures like support circles, and encouraging multi-disciplinary projects that span many groups.
```

With increased emphasis on decentralized physical infrastructures, we bring whole new discussion threads about infrastructural governance and "below-IP" projects and protocols that have established communities in the Global South.

> We are transitioning to open planning processes and exploring use of open source tools, drawing inspirations from events large and small from ScuttleCamp and Our Networks to Chaos Computer Camp and Burning Man.

Reviewer: drawing inspirations from events large and small from ScuttleCamp and Our Networks to Chaos Computer Camp and Burning Man. TWO SMALL CHANGES:  inspiration (not inspirations) and "Chaos Communication Camp"

Author: ```suggestion
We are transitioning to open planning processes and exploring use of open source tools, drawing inspiration from events large and small from ScuttleCamp and Our Networks to Chaos Communication Camp and Burning Man.
```
